# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0), and this project adheres
to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [0.5.0] - 2021-08-22

### Added

- (dependencies) Added `flake8`, `mypy`, `types-requests` and `isort` to dev-dependencies.
- (nfo) The get_banner_image method now returns banners in the same language of the primary audio track.
- (nfo) The chapter_entries scripting variable now shows the timecode to the left of the Chapter Name/Title.
- (examples) Added example output NFO and Description TXT generated by `nfo generate`.

### Changed

- (pycharm) Disabled the AttributeOutsideInit Inspection. This is to follow a more modern approach of type-hinting
  in the init function, instead of out-right initializing it with a value it probably doesn't need nor want.
- (nfo) get_database_ids method has been replaced with separate methods for each database ID. The new methods and
  code are more optimized too, with tightened checks on the ID values provided either by the user or the file metadata.
- (nfo) Replaced the uses of the scrape function from helpers with a new `requests` session which is stored in the NFO
  class directly.
- (nfo) The chapters attribute value is now a Dict with the key being the chapter timecode and the value being the
  chapter name/title.

### Fixed

- (nfo) The chapters_numbered check now checks case-insensitively.
- (nfo) The get_banner_image method now correctly returns banner URLs in expected languages.
- (examples) Removed typo `%` from the end of the if check syntax in templates near the chapter_entries variable.
- (examples) Fixed the list->indented newline-separated paragraph conversion on the chapters_entries variable.
- (examples) Removed unnecessary trailing whitespace from some artwork and templates.

### Removed

- (dependencies) Dropped support for Python 3.6.0 due to bugs in it. Python 3.6.1 and above is still supported.

## [0.4.4] - 2021-08-21

### Added

- Created `.markdownlint.yaml` and `.editorconfig` files for cross-editor configuration.
- Added the Contributor Covenant as `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`.
- (readme) Mention that scripting is not recommended on artwork templates.

### Changed

- (changelog) Updated the changelog to use Keep a Changelog. This makes the changelog a lot easier to read and write.
- (readme) Update the usage, installation, general layout, fixes. It was previously stating instructions for the old
  non-cli versions.
- (examples) Moved the artwork, nfo, and description templates from within the python-module directory to the new
  `/examples` directory.
- (license) Update year and username of the copyright line near the bottom of the file. The license is otherwise the
  exact same.

### Fixed

- (nfo) Subtitle print list no longer skips printing the subtitle language if it isn't included in the subtitle track
  title. It now supports scenarios in which the language is or isn't in the subtitle track title for compatibility.

### Security

- All YAML loads now use `yaml.safe_load` for extra security protection.

## [0.4.3] - 2021-07-12

### Added

- (github) Added GitHub actions CI build and release workflows.
- (readme) Add some Badges including new CI build status.
- (artwork) Add nfo artwork explore with the same functionality as nfo template explore.

### Removed

- Unnecessary `/__init__.py` file at root.

### Fixed

- (artwork) Fix possibility of a no-print result if the directory exists but is empty.
- (template) Fix possibility of a no-print result if the directory exists but is empty.
- (config) Ensure the config directory exists before attempting to write to it.

## [0.4.2] - 2021-06-26

### Changed

- (dependencies) Updated `pyd2v` to v1.3.0 to use the `_get_d2v()` which was originally part of `pvsfunc`, hence why
  it's removal was possible.

### Removed

- (dependencies) `pvsfunc` as it's highly integrated with VapourSynth causing unnecessary VapourSynth requirements.
  I only ever used it for one small function which has been moved to `pyd2v`.
- (dependencies) `poetry-dynamic-versioning` as it's caused some problems in some pip related nonsense, and this
  project isn't often updated enough to justify its PROs vs. CONs.

## [0.4.1] - 2021-06-24

### Added

- (nfo) Support for IMDb `Mini Series` titles. Previously I only knew of `Mini-Series` titles (note the `-`).

### Changed

- (dependencies) Updated `click`, `poetry-dynamic-versioning`, `pvsfunc`, and `pyd2v`.

### Removed

- config.example.yml file remnant that isn't needed due to breaking changes in [0.4.0].

### Fixed

- (generate) Run `nfo.set_config` even if there's no config or no data in the config.
- (generate) Ensure sure the input file or folder path exists before running generate code.

## [0.4.0] - 2021-06-05

### ⚠️ Breaking Changes

- Deleted `pynfogen.py` to move away from a split use-case project to a unified CLI-only project.

### Fixed

- (generate) Fix extra template variable name conflicts with base NFO class variable names. Requires template file
  updates, see commit ID [15c66d8] for more information, and see it's changes to the example template files to know
  what to change.
- (template) Add missing `--bbcode` option to `delete` subcommand.
- (readme) Fix the syntax and semantics of the custom formatter `If statement` examples.

  [15c66d8]: <https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/commit/15c66d8d6767abb04fc26a354aec3bac09f1b542>

### Added

- (nfo) Support for IMDb `Short` titles in `get_title_name_year`.
- (readme) Advertise that PyPI/PIP is a valid installation method.
- (readme) Clarify `poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true` as being recommended, yet optional.

## [0.3.3] - 2021-05-27

### Fixed

- (generate) Ensure `-s` is optional by checking `-s` has a value before using it for the int cast check.

## [0.3.2] - 2021-05-11

### Fixed

- (generate) Ensure file path is absolute so `release_name` can be correctly retrieved in some scenarios.

## [0.3.1] - 2021-05-07

### Fixed

- (config) Fix crash when no valid commands and/or options are used. Return help information in those cases.
- (generate) Fix/Update the doc-string information for `nfo generate`.
- (generate) Use `-N/--note` not `-N/--notes` as to match the already defined `note` variable used by NFO object.

## [0.3.0] - 2021-05-06

### Added

- (changelog) This HISTORY.md document.
- (template) `--bbcode` switch for specifying creation/editing of a BBCode Description template.
- (template) `template explore` command to open template directory in file explorer.
- (init) `__version__` string is now available for external use by other scripts and `version` command.

### Changed

- (formatter) Custom formatter specs `boolean` and `length` now returns as ints, but gets cast to str when needed.

### Fixed

- (version) `version` command no longer errors out if it's installed outside a git repository.
- (formatter) Custom formatter spec `layout` no longer panics if it receives a null/length of 0 items.

## [0.2.0] - 2021-05-05

### Added

- (dependencies) Added `poetry-dynamic-versioning` and `click`.
- (cli) Created CLI Interface using click.
- (versioning) Added `poetry-dynamic-versioning` for git tag based automated versioning.
- (readme) README now has information on requirements, setup, installation, etc.
- (formatter) New `len` formatter. It returns the `len()` of an object.

## Changed

- (packaging) Replaced setuptools with Poetry (<https://python-poetry.org>).
- (packaging) Project has been reworked as a python module.
- (generate) Artwork is now optional.

## [0.1.0] - 2021-05-05

- Initial release.

[Unreleased]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/compare/v0.5.0...HEAD
[0.5.0]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.5.0
[0.4.4]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.4.4
[0.4.3]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.4.3
[0.4.2]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.4.2
[0.4.1]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.4.1
[0.4.0]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.4.0
[0.3.3]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.3.3
[0.3.2]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.3.2
[0.3.1]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.3.1
[0.3.0]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.3.0
[0.2.0]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.2.0
[0.1.0]: https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases/tag/v0.1.0
