README.md, before:

# pynfogen

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rlaphoenix/pynfogen)](https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Python version tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/Build)](https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases)
[![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pynfogen)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pynfogen)
[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pynfogen)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pynfogen)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/rlaphoenix/pynfogen)](https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/issues)
[![DeepSource issues](https://deepsource.io/gh/rlaphoenix/pynfogen.svg/?label=active+issues)](https://deepsource.io/gh/rlaphoenix/pynfogen)

Scriptable MediaInfo-fed NFO Generator for Movies and TV.

## Installation

    pip install --user pynfogen

## Development

### Dependencies

- [Python](https://python.org/downloads) (v3.6 or newer)
- [PIP](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing) (v19.0 or newer)
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs) (latest recommended)

### Installation

1. `git clone https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen`
2. `cd pynfogen`
3. `poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true` (optional, but recommended)
4. `poetry install`
5. `nfo -h`

## F.A.Q

Using pynfogen is fairly simple, it's a multi-command CLI program. You can see up-to-date help information by
running `nfo --help`, or reading the readme file.

On initial installation, you won't have any [Artwork](#artwork) or [Templates](#templates), which are needed. You can
take a look at some examples at [/examples/art](/examples/art) and [/examples/templates](/examples/templates) in the
git. You may also want to take a look at [Configuration](#configuration).

Once you have everything set up as much as you want, simply take a look at the available commands with `nfo --help`.
The main command you want to take a look at would be `nfo generate -h`, which will create NFO and Description files
based on *one* provided video file.

What is an NFO and Description file, you may ask? tl-dr; Think of an NFO as a Receipt with information about your
release to be shared alongside it, and a Description file as the body for your post, thread, topic, message, or
such. You could also think of a Description file as an alternative output you could use.

More information can be found in the sections below.

### What is an NFO?

An NFO (aka .nfo, .NFO, a contraction of "Info" or "Information") is a commonly used filename extension for text files
that accompany various releases with information about them.

They are used to deliver release information about the media, such as the title, release date, authorship, etc. They
also commonly contain elaborate [ANSI art](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_art).

An NFO is generally archaic, do not think otherwise. Originally, NFO files would be shared through IRC, Usenet,
Email, etc. However, these days, most platforms do not allow NFO files to be shared with the release itself, but
rather within a forum thread or post. NFOs are becoming more and more phased out in P2P sharing, but still remains
in use in some cases.

While there isn't any hard-rules, If you plan to create a modern-style NFO then the following is recommended:

- Max line-length of 70 characters.
- Text should not reach the edge of the file (col. 1 and 70), instead it should be padded by spacing or ANSI art.
- Text-encoding should be UTF-8 and not CP437. CP437 is far too restricted compared to UTF-8.

Note that, elaborate ANSI art is no longer really used or wanted. Modern NFO files tend to be verbose with minimal
ANSI art, rather than concise with elaborate ANSI art.
### What file should I pass to `nfo generate`?

It's best-practice to provide the first-most file that best represents the majority of the release. E.g., If Episode 1
and 2 has a fault not found on Episodes 3 onwards, then provide Episode 3.

### How is it detecting or getting ...?

#### Database IDs (IMDB, TMDB, TVDB)

CLI options (-imdb, -tmdb, -tvdb), or the Config, or the provided file's global tags (in that order).

#### Title Name and Year

The IMDB page's `<title>` tag for the provided IMDB ID.

#### Release Name

Season releases get it from the parent folder name of the provided file.
Movie and Episode releases get it from the filename.

#### Preview Images

It scrapes the provided Preview URL (-P) for thumbnail and full image URLs.
The Preview URL must be for a Gallery or Album.
Supported hosts:

- <https://imgbox.com>
- <https://beyondhd.co>

#### Banner Image

The Fanart.tv API if a TVDB ID has been provided, and a Fanart.tv API key has been set.
It only returns banners that match the language of the primary Audio tracks language.

#### Season Episode Count

It counts the amount of neighbouring files of the same file-extension as the provided file. Make sure all files
matching this check is going to be part of the release as an episode file, or the episode count will be inaccurate.

## Templates

There are three kinds of templates to use. NFO Template, Description Template, and Artwork Templates.

| Template             | Description                                                                        | File Extension |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| NFO Template         | Primary Scriptable, structural data, like the Title, Year, Media Information, etc. | .nfo           |
| Description Template | Similar to NFO templates, but are used for the description output.                 | .desc.txt      |
| Artwork Template     | Used for surrounding the template output with art, common text, etc.               | .nfo           |

**Important:**
Artwork files are for viewing and studying only, for more information see the [Artwork LICENSE](/examples/art/LICENSE).

To give you an example scenerio. I would create an Artwork template named 'phoenix' with concise ASCII artwork placed
above the NFO, and an NFO template for 'season', 'episode', and 'movie' releases. I would also make a corresponding
Description template for each of those NFO templates. I now have the ability to create NFO files for a Full Season
release, a Single Episode release, or a Single Movie release. E.g. `nfo generate movie Movie.2021.mkv -a phoenix`.

If you notice you are copy pasting something between templates that is not structural or media information, then
you should probably put it into the Artwork Template instead. Or, if you notice you are changing something in a
template often, for a different kind of release, perhaps think of making a seperate template for those kinds of
releases.

Artwork templates are not applied to the Description output, they are only used for the NFO output.

Description templates are intended to be the contents or body of your forum post, IRC message, Email, etc.
Not the NFO to share alongside you're release directly.

Where-as, NFO templates are intended to be shared alongside the release. However, not all platforms allow you to
share the .NFO directly with the file, but may ask you to share it separately, e.g. a specific input field.

## Configuration

All configuration is optional, and currently quite minimal. Configuration can be done manually to the configuration
file, or via `nfo config` (see `nfo config -h`). All available config options are listed below (with descriptions).

| Key            | Type   | Description                                                                    |
| -------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| art            | string | The default artwork template to use, unless overridden by the `-a/--art` flag. |
| fanart_api_key | string | A Fanart.tv API Key to use for the fanart banner image (if available).         |

## Text-encoding

Traditional NFOs expect to use the codepage 437 (cp437) "ascii" text-encoding.
pynfogen generally doesn't care what you use, but may not respect you're choice correctly in the NFO output.
It has not been set up for specific text-encoding choice and generally speaking UTF-8 is expected.

## Scripting

The scripting system used by pynfogen is by no means ideal. It is however, consistent.
It's mostly a mix of python's normal new-style string formatting, with custom formatters.
It also uses a PHP-like `<?{x:y}..?>` custom syntax for if statements.

Scripting is generally not recommended to be used within Artwork templates.

### If statement

For example the following will check if the `{note}` variable (python new-style formatting) is a truthy value,
and only if so, print it:

    # note = "Hello World!"
    <?{note:true}Has note: {note}?>
    # returns: `Has note: Hello World!`

    # note = ""  # or None, 0, False, 1==2, e.t.c
    <?{note:true}Has note: {note}?>
    # returns: ``

It's obvious this is in no way good syntax for `if` statements (no `else` or `elif` support either), but it works.

It uses `1` and `0` in the `<?{here}?...>` section to determine if it should print or not.
Essentially speaking any time the If statement is used, you should be using the [Boolean custom formatter](#boolean).

### Custom Formatting

The following custom additional formatting to pythons new-style formatting is available:

#### Chaining

Example: `{var:bbimg:layout,2x2x0}`

Using `:` you can chain formatter results from left to right, passing previous value as it goes on.
The previous value does not necessarily need to be used.

For less confusion, since `:` is already used as standard in new-string formatting, look at the above example as
`{(var:bbimg):(layout,2x2x0)}`

#### Boolean

Example: `{var:true}` or `{var:!false}`.  
Type-hint: func(var: Any) -> Fixed\[1, 0]

Returns `1` if `var` is a truthy value, otherwise `0`.

There's also `{var:false}` and `{var:!true}` which is the flip-reverse of the above result.

#### BBCode Image Links

Example: `{var:bbimg}`  
Type-hint: bbimg(var: Union\[List\[dict], dict]) -> Union\[List\[str], str]  
Each dictionary: e.g. `{url: 'https://url/to/image/page', src: 'https://url/to/image/src.png'}`

Every dictionary is converted to BBCode `[IMG]` wrapped in `[URL]`. For example:
`[URL=https://url/to/image/page][IMG]https://url/to/image/src.png[/IMG][/URL]`

Returns a list of converted bbcode strings, or a single string if only one dictionary was provided.

#### Layout

Example: `{var:layout,3x2x1}`  
Type-hint: layout(var: Union\[List\[Any], Any], width: int, height: int, spacing: int) -> str

Lays out items in a grid-like layout, spacing out items using spaces (or new lines) as specified.
New-lines are used when spacing vertically.

#### Wrapping

Example: `{var:>>2x68}`  
Type-hint: wrap(var: Any, indent: int, wrap: int)

Text-wrap to a specific length. Each subsequent new-line caused by the wrapping can be intended (or not if 0).

#### Centering

Example: `{var:^>70x68}`  
Type-hint: center(var: Any, centering: int, wrap: int)

Centers and also Text-wraps (while also centering wraps) to a specific width.

## Contribute

Please do contribute! Issues, pull requests, and discussion topics are welcome.

Thank you to anyone who helps contribute to the project!

Commit message:

README: Add a brief section to FAQ on Description files

README.md, after:

# pynfogen

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rlaphoenix/pynfogen)](https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Python version tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/Build)](https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/releases)
[![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pynfogen)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pynfogen)
[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pynfogen)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pynfogen)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/rlaphoenix/pynfogen)](https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen/issues)
[![DeepSource issues](https://deepsource.io/gh/rlaphoenix/pynfogen.svg/?label=active+issues)](https://deepsource.io/gh/rlaphoenix/pynfogen)

Scriptable MediaInfo-fed NFO Generator for Movies and TV.

## Installation

    pip install --user pynfogen

## Development

### Dependencies

- [Python](https://python.org/downloads) (v3.6 or newer)
- [PIP](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing) (v19.0 or newer)
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs) (latest recommended)

### Installation

1. `git clone https://github.com/rlaphoenix/pynfogen`
2. `cd pynfogen`
3. `poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true` (optional, but recommended)
4. `poetry install`
5. `nfo -h`

## F.A.Q

Using pynfogen is fairly simple, it's a multi-command CLI program. You can see up-to-date help information by
running `nfo --help`, or reading the readme file.

On initial installation, you won't have any [Artwork](#artwork) or [Templates](#templates), which are needed. You can
take a look at some examples at [/examples/art](/examples/art) and [/examples/templates](/examples/templates) in the
git. You may also want to take a look at [Configuration](#configuration).

Once you have everything set up as much as you want, simply take a look at the available commands with `nfo --help`.
The main command you want to take a look at would be `nfo generate -h`, which will create NFO and Description files
based on *one* provided video file.

What is an NFO and Description file, you may ask? tl-dr; Think of an NFO as a Receipt with information about your
release to be shared alongside it, and a Description file as the body for your post, thread, topic, message, or
such. You could also think of a Description file as an alternative output you could use.

More information can be found in the sections below.

### What is an NFO?

An NFO (aka .nfo, .NFO, a contraction of "Info" or "Information") is a commonly used filename extension for text files
that accompany various releases with information about them.

They are for delivering release information about the media, such as the title, release date, authorship, etc. They
also commonly contain elaborate [ANSI art](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_art).

An NFO is generally archaic, do not think otherwise. Originally, NFO files would be shared through IRC, Usenet,
Email, etc. However, these days, most platforms do not allow NFO files to be shared with the release itself, but
rather within a forum thread or post. NFOs are becoming more and more phased out in P2P sharing, but still remains
in use in some cases.

While there isn't any hard-rules, If you plan to create a modern-style NFO then the following is recommended:

- Max line-length of 70 characters.
- Text should not reach the edge of the file (col. 1 and 70), instead it should be padded by spacing or ANSI art.
- Text-encoding should be UTF-8 and not CP437. CP437 is far too restricted compared to UTF-8.

Note that, elaborate ANSI art is no longer really used or wanted. Modern NFO files tend to be verbose with minimal
ANSI art, rather than concise with elaborate ANSI art.

### What is a Description file?

It's like an NFO, without any rules whatsoever. You can use a description template as an alternative output to the NFO
output. This alternative output can be used for any purpose you like, but most commonly used for forum posts, IRC
messages, and such.

### What file should I pass to `nfo generate`?

It's best-practice to provide the first-most file that best represents the majority of the release. E.g., If Episode 1
and 2 has a fault not found on Episodes 3 onwards, then provide Episode 3.

### How is it detecting or getting ...?

#### Database IDs (IMDB, TMDB, TVDB)

CLI options (-imdb, -tmdb, -tvdb), or the Config, or the provided file's global tags (in that order).

#### Title Name and Year

The IMDB page's `<title>` tag for the provided IMDB ID.

#### Release Name

Season releases get it from the parent folder name of the provided file.
Movie and Episode releases get it from the filename.

#### Preview Images

It scrapes the provided Preview URL (-P) for thumbnail and full image URLs.
The Preview URL must be for a Gallery or Album.
Supported hosts:

- <https://imgbox.com>
- <https://beyondhd.co>

#### Banner Image

The Fanart.tv API if a TVDB ID has been provided, and a Fanart.tv API key has been set.
It only returns banners that match the language of the primary Audio tracks language.

#### Season Episode Count

It counts the amount of neighbouring files of the same file-extension as the provided file. Make sure all files
matching this check is going to be part of the release as an episode file, or the episode count will be inaccurate.

## Templates

There are three kinds of templates to use. NFO Template, Description Template, and Artwork Templates.

| Template             | Description                                                                        | File Extension |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| NFO Template         | Primary Scriptable, structural data, like the Title, Year, Media Information, etc. | .nfo           |
| Description Template | Similar to NFO templates, but are used for the description output.                 | .desc.txt      |
| Artwork Template     | Used for surrounding the template output with art, common text, etc.               | .nfo           |

**Important:**
Artwork files are for viewing and studying only, for more information see the [Artwork LICENSE](/examples/art/LICENSE).

To give you an example scenerio. I would create an Artwork template named 'phoenix' with concise ASCII artwork placed
above the NFO, and an NFO template for 'season', 'episode', and 'movie' releases. I would also make a corresponding
Description template for each of those NFO templates. I now have the ability to create NFO files for a Full Season
release, a Single Episode release, or a Single Movie release. E.g. `nfo generate movie Movie.2021.mkv -a phoenix`.

If you notice you are copy pasting something between templates that is not structural or media information, then
you should probably put it into the Artwork Template instead. Or, if you notice you are changing something in a
template often, for a different kind of release, perhaps think of making a seperate template for those kinds of
releases.

Artwork templates are not applied to the Description output, they are only used for the NFO output.

Description templates are intended to be the contents or body of your forum post, IRC message, Email, etc.
Not the NFO to share alongside you're release directly.

Where-as, NFO templates are intended to be shared alongside the release. However, not all platforms allow you to
share the .NFO directly with the file, but may ask you to share it separately, e.g. a specific input field.

## Configuration

All configuration is optional, and currently quite minimal. Configuration can be done manually to the configuration
file, or via `nfo config` (see `nfo config -h`). All available config options are listed below (with descriptions).

| Key            | Type   | Description                                                                    |
| -------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| art            | string | The default artwork template to use, unless overridden by the `-a/--art` flag. |
| fanart_api_key | string | A Fanart.tv API Key to use for the fanart banner image (if available).         |

## Text-encoding

Traditional NFOs expect to use the codepage 437 (cp437) "ascii" text-encoding.
pynfogen generally doesn't care what you use, but may not respect you're choice correctly in the NFO output.
It has not been set up for specific text-encoding choice and generally speaking UTF-8 is expected.

## Scripting

The scripting system used by pynfogen is by no means ideal. It is however, consistent.
It's mostly a mix of python's normal new-style string formatting, with custom formatters.
It also uses a PHP-like `<?{x:y}..?>` custom syntax for if statements.

Scripting is generally not recommended to be used within Artwork templates.

### If statement

For example the following will check if the `{note}` variable (python new-style formatting) is a truthy value,
and only if so, print it:

    # note = "Hello World!"
    <?{note:true}Has note: {note}?>
    # returns: `Has note: Hello World!`

    # note = ""  # or None, 0, False, 1==2, e.t.c
    <?{note:true}Has note: {note}?>
    # returns: ``

It's obvious this is in no way good syntax for `if` statements (no `else` or `elif` support either), but it works.

It uses `1` and `0` in the `<?{here}?...>` section to determine if it should print or not.
Essentially speaking any time the If statement is used, you should be using the [Boolean custom formatter](#boolean).

### Custom Formatting

The following custom additional formatting to pythons new-style formatting is available:

#### Chaining

Example: `{var:bbimg:layout,2x2x0}`

Using `:` you can chain formatter results from left to right, passing previous value as it goes on.
The previous value does not necessarily need to be used.

For less confusion, since `:` is already used as standard in new-string formatting, look at the above example as
`{(var:bbimg):(layout,2x2x0)}`

#### Boolean

Example: `{var:true}` or `{var:!false}`.  
Type-hint: func(var: Any) -> Fixed\[1, 0]

Returns `1` if `var` is a truthy value, otherwise `0`.

There's also `{var:false}` and `{var:!true}` which is the flip-reverse of the above result.

#### BBCode Image Links

Example: `{var:bbimg}`  
Type-hint: bbimg(var: Union\[List\[dict], dict]) -> Union\[List\[str], str]  
Each dictionary: e.g. `{url: 'https://url/to/image/page', src: 'https://url/to/image/src.png'}`

Every dictionary is converted to BBCode `[IMG]` wrapped in `[URL]`. For example:
`[URL=https://url/to/image/page][IMG]https://url/to/image/src.png[/IMG][/URL]`

Returns a list of converted bbcode strings, or a single string if only one dictionary was provided.

#### Layout

Example: `{var:layout,3x2x1}`  
Type-hint: layout(var: Union\[List\[Any], Any], width: int, height: int, spacing: int) -> str

Lays out items in a grid-like layout, spacing out items using spaces (or new lines) as specified.
New-lines are used when spacing vertically.

#### Wrapping

Example: `{var:>>2x68}`  
Type-hint: wrap(var: Any, indent: int, wrap: int)

Text-wrap to a specific length. Each subsequent new-line caused by the wrapping can be intended (or not if 0).

#### Centering

Example: `{var:^>70x68}`  
Type-hint: center(var: Any, centering: int, wrap: int)

Centers and also Text-wraps (while also centering wraps) to a specific width.

## Contribute

Please do contribute! Issues, pull requests, and discussion topics are welcome.

Thank you to anyone who helps contribute to the project!
